I'm a big fan of standing out because
there's a lot of SEOs that publish, they
publish great stuff, but it's very
technical and it's almost like it was
SEO content to serve other SEOs. And I'm
like, well, that's not rather selfishly
that's not going to grow my business.
That's just going to make other SEOs
clap.
[Music]
Sam Bling, welcome to the show. Um, for
me, you're the SEO, B2B SEO Saska, and
um, really happy to be talking to you
today. I thought I'd just allow you to
introduce yourself to the audience um,
over the next couple of minutes. Like,
yeah, I appreciate the invite. So, it's
Sam Dunning, founder of a company called
Breaking B2B.
And in short, we usually work with kind
of B2B software, SAS, tech, or the odd
service company that's basically tired
of seeing competitors above them in
Google's organic search results or now
AI search. Basically meaning those
competitors are getting a free lunch,
stealing traffic, mind share, inbound
leads, and pipeline around the clock. So
we address that with a bit of an unusual
approach to SEO in content marketing
that can drive pipeline as fast as 90
days. And usually it tends to be kind of
overworked, overrun marketing teams that
come to us from B2B tech companies. And
I also run a podcast much like yourself,
my podcast called Breaking B2B.
And we interview each and every Monday.
We either run a guest episode with a SAS
marketing leader to share exactly how
they're driving growth today or we do a
solo episode. And that could be anything
from how to craft a SAS website that
converts or weird SEO strategies or
unusual B2B experiments I'm running. and
the the the highs, the lows, and
everything in between. And and that's
where I spend most of my time. That's
really fun stuff. That's really
exciting. Um I hope everyone goes and
kind of starts to starts to consume all
those exciting experiments. Um I think
one cool thing that you've done recently
is also amongst other things, uh get
your website from fresh press to number
one on Google for B2B SAS SEO in 90
days. Um I want to get into that but
before we get into that like how
important to that success would you say
um was kind of like the background
strategy you know understanding targets
uh you know messaging um customer
insights or things things of that nature
I'd say pretty important like customer
research is definitely in my opinion the
backbone of and the foundation really of
any successful
B2B marketing in general because
otherwise you're just guessing so much
like you're guessing your dream client
profile. You're guessing if the
messaging is going to work not just on
your website pretty much everywhere in
your sales pitch in your ads um on the
site, off the site, in your if you're
guesting on podcast, all that kind of
stuff. Like your customer research and
your messaging just frames up
everything. Um, and for me, like to give
you a without boring you of too much of
the background story, but I've worked in
SEO and website agencies for the best
part of 13 14 years. And I've gone from
like being a project manager to sales to
doing some of the hands-on work and now
more strategy.
And we like I basically built our
messaging from my own pain because we
used to when I used to sell websites and
SEO, I used to sell to literally anyone
and everyone who would buy. And the
issue was that the issue with that was
it was always a struggle. Like I really
really had to work hard to convince
people in the value of SEO and that it
was actually worth the investment.
And then when I started running my
podcast breaking B2B and it wasn't
always called that, but it evolved to
that over the last few years. And when I
started interviewing these these uh B2B
and tech and SAS marketing leaders, I
realized that it makes more sense for me
to double down on one B2B companies. and
ideally B2B SAS teams because the
marketers within these organizations
understand the value in our case of our
offer. This doesn't have to relate to
SEO, but they understand that SEO is an
actual asset. They understand that if
they don't invest in it, their
competitors are going to rank above them
in Google and steal traffic and leads
and pipeline and they they have a grasp
on what the flow is and that it's
worthwhile. So, it makes way more sense.
And this is a business lesson, like have
a have an offer that's not just that you
think's great, but have an offer that
serves a specific niche that has the
expensive problem that you solve that is
genuinely motivated to solve it and most
importantly can easily afford that
offer. Like, so you're basically selling
there's a there's a expression, right,
selling for the starving. I don't know
if I'd go that far, but they've got to
have that expensive problem. They've got
to be motivated to fix it. they've got
like have the cash to to to easily
invest. So in our case, I was going
blind for all these years, doubled down
on B2B tech, SAS and B2B service, then
realized these marketers actually
understand the value. It makes sense to
to focus on them. And then using the
feedback loop that I was getting from
calls like when I was speaking to these
marketing leaders and tech teams they
were saying look our last agency kind of
promised the world and all they really
gave us was loads of traffic that never
converted into leads or demos or
pipeline
or they tried to do some SEO in house
and it didn't really work out and it was
just they had too many tasks to juggle
between ads between events and all the
rest of it. So I literally built out our
messaging based on what I was hearing
from the market. So in our case, our
headline is B2B SAS SEO for for revenue
not vanity. And that was basically
because I wanted to pick a fight with
everything we stand against. So vanity
metrics like traffic and rankings when
really want to focus on what drives
pipeline as quick as possible because
that's what the exec team care care
about. So that's where we should be
aligned. So that was after years of my
own pain kind of helped me build out our
messaging which like you say is is the
backbone because if someone's coming to
your website or any of your assets and
it's not immediately resonating with
kind of why you how you help why they
should consider you over a competitor
then you're you're going to fall short
especially if you're investing into
marketing into ads into events and
sending a lot of people to those assets
like your website. Oh no, that's
incredible. And I think you know just
just in the last two three minutes you
gave a marketing 101. Um there's like
you know all the questions related to
positioning, all the questions related
to to to messaging, everything that you
got to nail down. Uh being able to
replicate what the your targets are
saying as good messaging, uh it's all
there. So I think already that's that's
an amazing start.
Real quick, are you tired of seeing
competitors above you in Google's
organic search results and AI search
every time dream clients are searching
for your solution, your software,
comparing vendors or looking for
problems that you solve? Meaning those
competitors are stealing traffic, mind
share, pipeline, and revenue just
because they invested in an SEO program.
We fix that at breaking B2B with an
unusual approach to SEO and content
marketing for B2B and SAS companies. Why
not book a call to see if we can start
driving pipeline and revenues as quick
as 90 days with our different approach?
Head over to breakingb2tb.com to grab a
call. I look forward to chatting to you
soon. Back to the episode.
So, so, so, so am I right in thinking
that you kicked off your your your your
kind of service offering and as you're
going through that and primarily through
sales calls, you kind of were just
always reflecting on on on what you're
hearing and and where people are kind of
um, you know, and you know, how did you
really gauge like, you know, practically
how did you gauge that, okay, no,
actually these these these uh B2B SAS
marketers are a better customer for me.
Was it like in your CRM they had longer
kind of they they were churning less? Um
what what was the trigger to that? Yeah,
I wish it was that detailed and for
companies that are a lot smarter, wiser
and have better resource than me. Yes,
go to your CRM and and look for data
like historically what companies have we
sold well to, what verticals they're
they in, what thermographics,
industries, all that kind of stuff. Um,
so then you can, like you say, you can
you can evaluate what type of companies,
what size, who was the point of contact,
how long did they stay with us, did they
churn at a certain point, etc. Then you
can kind of really double down on that
dream client profile. I didn't have any
of that. Like I'm I'm terrible. I run
most of my stuff out of Google Drive and
Google Sheets and Google Docs. Um, but
we're we're still a small bootstrap
growing company, right? Um, so we're a
small crack team. And this this company
breaking B2B is only as we speak kind of
around 13 months old. So in my case I
most most of the data I was getting was
either from folks like B2B marketing
leaders I was interviewing on my podcast
breaking B2B or I was running a ton of I
still am. I run a lot of sales calls
each and every week discovery calls with
folks that either find us for our own
SEO through the podcast through my
LinkedIn content recommendations my
email list etc. Yeah. And I'll always
dig in like I think great marketers
should also should generally be super
curious like being curiosity is a great
trait of a salesperson of a marketer of
a founder. So when I run those discovery
calls, and this doesn't just have to
translate to an SEO offer. This can
translate to any offer is really
understanding like things like what's
made you want to kind of book the call
now. Digging into kind of why are we
having this conversation? Like what are
the what are the kind of pain points
that you're having right now? What's the
impact of those pain points, etc. Why
what's made you want to look at this now
of all times?
um if they've got an incumbent incumbent
software or incumbent provider, like
wouldn't it be easier to just stay with
them? Like why are you having this call
with me? Why do you want to speak to
another founder or sales rep? Like why
do you want to waste 30 minutes? Like
really diving into that stuff, pulling
those insights and then looking for
threads, looking for common patterns in
responses, right? And that was all it
was really. It was not there was no real
artwork to it. I was just hearing
because I was having these sales
conversations every week. I was looking
for common themes and in my case it was
like agencies promising the earth and
just delivering a bit of traffic opposed
to pipeline and overworked marketing
teams and lacking resource to make it
happen. So I was just putting those
common themes into our messaging and it
was just nothing more detailed than
that. That's that's like how many calls
do you reckon it was just to get a feel
of that like before you were kind of
like okay this is this is this is a
theme appearing. Um yeah how many calls
was it? Oh, loads, loads. I mean, I to
give you some context, like
nothing in B2B marketing happens all
that quick, right? Especially if you're
selling high ticket solutions. And I've
to give you idea, I've been running my
podcast, Breaking B2B, for over five
years. And for the first two or three
years, I was clueless. I was just
interviewing anyone and everyone. It was
only the last couple years that I
fine-tuned it to like B2B and SAS
marketing because I realized all those
issues that I had before like trying to
sell to folks that don't believe in the
value of in our case SEO. So I think it
was just just learning through the pain
and then stumbling upon B2B and SAS
marketing probably after listening to
other podcasts and interviewing folks on
my show and just just kind of really
learning the hard way. And then I think
eventually I think what probably was the
tipping point is that we someone
followed my content on LinkedIn and they
were uh an Israeli funded tech company
and I dealt with them and they were just
they were just
really wanted to make SEO happen. They
had a good budget. They understood the
value. And I think for me that was the
tipping point. I was like this is so
much better dealing with a marketer at
this type of company that understands
the value already and wants to make it
happen. And I was like, I should sell to
more of these kind of people.
And then it yeah, it kind of went from
there really. So So like when you
figured that out, how did you double
down? Was it was it like let's write
more on LinkedIn? Was it let's you know
create a website and and drive the SEO
traffic to it? Like what what was the
doubling down looking? What did that
look like? Oh, it was it was a lot of
angles. That's a good question. So it
was various things. So with for example
with a breaking B2B website was let's
let's make our messaging resonate with
this this dream client profile. So let's
clearly say on a homepage straight away
in in our case B2B SAS SEO for for
revenue not vanity. Um even with the
name breaking B2B I I kind of split
tested that. I bought a load of
different domains and I actually asked
some of my peers like I pinged them on
LinkedIn message and just said what do
you think of these these name choices?
and even ran a poll on LinkedIn cuz I
didn't want to just guess the domain
name. I wanted to actually make sure it
hit home with B2B marketers and everyone
was like, "Yeah, go for break." I gave a
few choices and they said, "Yeah, go for
breaking B2B." And to be honest, I was
surprised that was available when I
registered it like 14 months ago. Um,
and yeah, so a lot of stuff I was
getting real advice from B2B marketers
that I trusted
um because I didn't want to go in blind
like I wanted to get as much feedback as
possible. And then that yeah that that
kind of feedback loop went through to
website messaging build key pages to my
LinkedIn content. So pretty much all I
really post about is advice for B2B SAS
marketers and s such around SEO and
content marketing and building impact
with this company and that kind of
stuff. And likewise on the podcast
breaking B2B like episodes interviews
with those kind of marketers the solo
episodes I do on SEO and websites are
all fine tuned to that audience. So
making everything as useful as
entertaining and valuable to that
specific audience directly.
So when when they think when they have
the problem that we solve, we we're top
of mind. That makes a lot of sense. That
makes a lot of sense. Just to say, how
do you go from that top level strategy
to the kind of the the Yeah. the the
content strategy like the actual like
titles and pieces of content like is is
there something formal that's happening
between those two points? Okay. Are you
talking about our own like in terms of
what we publish on on LinkedIn or you
talking about from a wider strategy in
terms of SEO or just so I can give you
the best Yeah. Good point. Let's let's
start with LinkedIn and then and then
and then move into uh Yeah. like SEO on
your website. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I
won't be able to answer this as well
because I know in in the next few weeks
you're having George Cudinares. So he's
going to be great to have on on this
specific topic because he he can dive
into the five stages awareness from like
be heard, be ready, be seen, all that
kind of good stuff. He's super good on
that. Whereas my LinkedIn strategy is
probably not as tight as George is by
any means. My English strategy is
usually let's do a mix of posts from
informational like top of funnel to kind
of midfunnel like free assets and that
kind of stuff and bottom of funnel like
client testimonials, review videos,
quotes and that kind of stuff. So
usually it's like it is fine tuned to my
ICP. So it's something that a B2B
marketer should find helpful, funny or
entertaining really. I'm a big fan of
standing out because there's a lot of
SEOs that publish. They publish great
stuff, but it's very technical and it's
almost like it was SEO content to serve
other SEOs. And I'm like, that's not
rather selfishly. That's not going to
grow my business. That's just going to
make other SEOs clap. Um, which is not
what I want. I want other marketers to
buy my So, how do I do that? Well,
I try and post stuff that's different.
Um, so that could be an experiment that
I've run like ranking in 90 days. That
could be me on the street asking people,
"How do you get to the top of Google,
which we've done, man on the street
videos, um, to break out." That could be
me making a meme that's something stupid
around SEO. So, it's a mix of kind of
helpful stuff, but also stuff that's a
bit different is kind of how I approach
LinkedIn. That's actually really I mean
like Yeah. Yeah. I want to explore that
a bit more. of creativity, standing out,
being different in B2B is is like a holy
grail topic. Uh how how do you do that
and and how do you do it? Well, um I
wonder if if is for you, was this also
just kind of experimentation? you
weren't thinking about it too much, just
giving things a go, seeing seeing what
stuck or or or was there something more
kind of like, you know,
to stand out, I need to have my own
personal brand. My personal brand is
going to be based on me, Sam Dunning,
you reflected on who you are, and you
tried to put that out, then it's kind of
more structured like that, like, you
know, um, how did it how did it work
standing out? Yeah. So I'll frame this
first although I I guess I'm in a
fortunate space as the fact that I'm a
founder of a company. I can pretty much
do what I want on social media. So a lot
of marketers probably aren't in the same
space where they need to get approvals
and all that kind of stuff now. Yeah,
I've been on LinkedIn a long time,
right? And it's getting harder and
harder to get organic reach. So I think
it's more and more important to
especially with the rise of AI and
anyone can ch any type of content flip
the switch but so kind of having your
own point of view is really important
and also doing stuff that's different to
what or trying to be different. So when
it comes to experiments I'm a big fan of
big fan of experimentation in general
like going in with a bit of a hypothesis
and thinking like this might resonate
with my clients. I think this is a bit
different and I think this could have a
good impact on whatever we're trying to
do whether that's more visits to our
website, more leads, whatever. Um, so
like one of my one of my I've done a lot
of stuff like so much has flopped, so
much has failed. Um, but one of the
ideas I had that's probably worked the
best is my ask the public series and
that was started just over a year ago.
Okay. And I got the idea when I think
one night after playing football. I was
just eating dinner and looking at my
phone and stumbled upon YouTube short of
a I think they called the school of hard
knocks where this guy just interviews
like entrepreneurs on the street. Yeah.
And yeah, really good really good little
miniseries. And I thought that could be
fun in B2B. So I was literally a week
later I got my friend Ben who he's a
videographer and just said we need to do
this. I've got this idea. Yeah. some
cash and we just went out and videoed
it. I bought a a road mic. He just
filmed on his phone and I was asking
people on the street like um how do you
get to the top of Google? Um what is
SEO? What do you think about cold
calling and all that kind of stuff just
to get funny reactions and every we do
this we do those series now because it
was quite successful do them maybe every
couple months or do it in a new
location. But that's one of the best
because that still gets brought up on
sales calls like people say like I
really enjoyed your ask the public
series and it's not directly tied to SEO
but makes our brand more memorable. Um
so then more people might follow us or
check out our newslet or check out the
podcast. Yeah, I Yeah, that that's so
fascinating because because um first of
all, I think, you know, experimentation
I I need to I need to also kind of build
that into my kind of approach to
LinkedIn a bit more. I think I'm still
too I'm too slow to just try lots of
different things and slightly nervous
still. I'm new to LinkedIn. So, so I I
still feel a kind of um kind of still a
bit of a nervousness to kind of look
stupid um in the professional kind of
context, but I think you know without
those failing without that failing fast
mindset, you won't you won't find um
that thing that works. And it's
interesting that you also did these um
on the street interviews because as you
say, they don't relate directly to SAS
marketers in the sense that you're
talking about SEO to them, but it would
resonate with them because they're
looking for innovative ways to do
content. They're seeing you do that and
you you are talking about your service
and and your offering um you know SEO.
So, so, so it's it's kind of interesting
that that that yeah, that would act as
like kind of like your brand brand piece
and it worked because it comes up in
sales calls. Um, I had a YouTube channel
once uh and it was really funny as a
because because I was working with
coffee and I would record my journeys to
to uh farms and then I was at a few
weddings and people that I never met in
my life would come up to me and say,
"Hey, you're you're you know, you seem
really like a you seem like a friendly
guy doing all these crazy adventures
like you know as if they knew me but I
and I didn't have a clue who they were."
So it it works in a subless ways. That's
awesome. That's exactly it. I think it's
so
just having those little ways to be
remembered that yeah, they they've got
to slightly link back to your product.
Sure. Otherwise, it's it's almost
pointless. But having something that
will just differentiate you from the
thousands of other companies doing a
similar software or service or solution
to you. Exactly. Is Yeah. Just just
helps build up that mind share a bit
more and that familiar familiarity.
And I think that approach like kind kind
of looking at things that are happening
in uh off LinkedIn, right? So you could
even TV is pretty interesting. Netflix,
you know, how how are they creating
certain kind of 10-minute documentaries
just other forms of media and then
bringing it back into B2B is kind of an
interesting way of doing it and and just
like kind of taking notes of, oh, I just
saw this format on on on Twitter or Tik
Tok, whatever it is. X um and and and
kind of bring it in. That's it's kind of
Yeah, I think I think that's pretty
pretty interesting way to do things. So,
um
then in terms of SEO, how do you do the
same, right? So, you got your target,
you got you got your messaging, uh you
brought it out there, it seems to be
working, and now you've got to
build it into a website such that it
functions in a certain way, right? that
is searchable that people find uh the
right search term in the right stage of
the funnel. This is a lot more
technical. Um so how do you translate
those two um how do you translate your
high level strategy into your SEO
strategy and maybe here you can also
broaden out to talk about other startups
in general if you like.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um, so the it's always
tricky when it comes to SEO and then
getting that tied in with the rest of
the messaging strategy. I think that's
where a lot of companies fall short and
they kind of go one they go too hard one
way on the SEO and they or they go too
hard on oh no we can't do anything to
our website like doing an SEO campaign
is going to completely ruin like our
design or our messaging or that kind of
stuff. it doesn't have to if it's done
strategically
um and it's well thought thought out. So
probably as you gathered like our our
approach is if we're doing an SEO
program for a B2B company like how can
we drive time to value how can we drive
revenue as quick as humanly possible and
we we don't necessarily care about
driving tons and tons of traffic that
probably be a byproduct of what we do
the traffic will go up but instead we
care about how can we drive dream
clients that have sales intent looking
on Google or AI search now as well that
are actively in market are in that as we
know the 955 rule. We're in that 5% that
are actively searching or evaluating
solutions in our space. How can we
capture that demand? Um because that's
when SEO is best to drive leads,
pipeline, demo, signups, whatever our
end goal is. Um so that that's it in its
simplest form. And
like you said, that's something we did
at breaking B2B when we started. I knew
that I wanted to kind of drive inbounds
from organic search as quick as humanly
possible. Also in our case, we went
after terms like B2B SAS SEO, B2B SEO,
and did a big content strategy and
aggressively published content and built
links with partners and all that kind of
stuff that we can go into. Um, but for
most companies, I guess where they go
wrong is a few few different areas. One
is
like I alluded to earlier that perhaps
the marketing team is stretched thin and
then kind of maybe the the revenue
leader or the marketing leader kind of
approaches the marketing exec and kind
of says look we need to do some SEO can
I keep seeing all these brands ahead of
us in the search results and the problem
is this marketer's probably got 100 jobs
to do for that week and adding SEO to
their plate is is another thing to to
stretch them even thinner so they say,
"Okay, I'll do some SEO because they're
so short on time. What that probably
looks like is let's find a high traffic
keyword on Semrush or Hrefs. Let's then
it's related to our product. Let's then
pump out an article through ChatGBT,
make a few tweaks, and chuck it on our
blog, and then get back to the other 998
tasks for the week." And the problem is
that the revenue leader might come back
to them a few months later and say like,
"How did the SEO do?" And they'll be
like, "Yeah, great. I published this
article on this." And they'll go,
"Great. How many leads did it bring in?"
and they'll say, "Well, none. You just
said do SEO."
And that's where the problem lies. Like,
they've gone after a high traffic term.
It might even rank, but it's probably
not going to drive any pipeline because
it's probably like a topfunnel keyword,
anformational based keyword like how to
do X or best ways to do Y or what is Y
or that kind of stuff. Real Topfunnel.
Um, which is also a lot of that's being
wiped out by AI overviews now, like the
instant results in Google before you
have to click through into the results
pages.
So lack of a clear clear strategy is one
of the biggest issues we see. And there
are simple ways like we've got
frameworks that I can share how how you
can map out your quote unquote money
keywords and like drive kind of really
drill down into pipeline driving terms.
There's there's simple ways to do that.
That's where a lot of companies need to
start their strategy. I I've like I've
heard about this kind of I used to work
with SEO as well and
you know um
yeah this kind of this old way of doing
the whole funnel. So you go from top of
the funnel where you've got the most
kind of like yes uh can broad key key um
you know search terms you know how do
you do this how do you know and you got
the middle of the funnel which more
comparative and then you got the bottom
of the funnel stuff and because of AI
and even paid ads and certain things
like that everything's shifting towards
bottom of the funnel style um kind of
using SEO to do bottom the funnel style
stuff that's where it's effective
um So with that like do you also just
out of curiosity like what what do you
how do you imagine the whole funnel now?
Do do you imagine like top of the funnel
exists on socials and then there's also
a connection between that and your
website which is more bottom of the
funnel um in terms of the article and
stuff that are written there. It's a
very broad question. Oh sorry it doesn't
matter. No need to apologize. I mean
it's I how do I think of it? I think
Hey, there I guess realistically
speaking there's no funnel because the
the B2B journey is this is for my
opinion um so I'm willing to be
challenged but I think the B2B buying
journey is so messed up and to give you
an example of that in action like on our
on our book a call page on breaking B2B
we've got the how did you first hear
about us field that's free text in our
booking form and someone might put
LinkedIn or podcast or something like
that. And then when we have the
discovery call or or the sales call, I
would always ask like like what was your
full route to finding us today like how
did you stumble upon us? They might say
something completely different like oh
what actually happened is I I was
googling like best SAS SEO agency. I saw
you were listed there. Then I checked
out your podcast. Then I followed you
for like six months on LinkedIn. Then I
downloaded your SEO playbook. Then I
forgot about it. Then one of our execs
mentioned it and I saw you on LinkedIn.
Then I talked about on Slack. Then we
realized that we needed to pick up on
SEO because our ad spend was too high.
Oh no, I booked a call. And it's like
that just shows you like the journey is
not linear at all. It's completely
messed up. Um, yeah. And to answer your
question, like in short, you want to be
on all the channels that your prospects
are using as trusted source of
information, but usually you want to
start with like the highest intent,
right? And that might be using SEO to
capture bottom of funnel prospects in
the market, looking for offer now or
comparing options. That might be Google
ads. That might be doing LinkedIn
content that appeals to your ICP.
that might be hitting events if your
prospects are actually going to those
events and they're worthwhile. I mean
most of the time it's
I deal with a lot of kind of series A
series B teams and a lot of those
marketing teams are stretched thin so
it's usually about where can we have the
biggest impact the quickest and
dedicating time to where those dream
clients are hanging out. Exactly. I
think one of the words that you
mentioned there was intent like this
this kind of content that we're building
doesn't matter on which platform has to
uh connect to what um you know would
would would would would amount to like a
hand raised or where they're showing the
highest intent. So how do you how do you
you personally think about intent like
what to you is a signal of intent on
these platforms? Um and and and you
could talk about the kinds of content
that if it's consumed signals intent for
you or the kind of keyword that if it's
searchable signals intent to you. Um you
know it's it's broad again but I'm just
curious what you take. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
So I I mean I know there's a lot of
certainly over the last year there's
been a lot around intent data and things
like that. like folks that maybe been on
various websites and showed some kind of
interest and then that gets sold as data
that your SDR or sales team can phone up
and or email nurture etc. That's not
really my skill set. Now my skill set is
more simple like what does uh an ICP
what does a a focus client actually
search for from an SEO perspective when
they need the offer. So, like you said,
it's bottomfunnel stuff. So, it's not
informational based, but I do think
there's a case for topfunnel SEO if it
follows a certain framework. Um,
it's more they're probably going to type
into Google things like in the proposal
software space like best proposal
software tools,
best best um best tools for building
proposals or best proposal software
platforms or that kind of stuff. um
that's probably going to be a high
intent term or they're comparing
options. So maybe evaluating three, four
different softwares. So they're looking
for stuff like proposify alternatives or
Quiller alternatives or Quiller versus
Proposify like those real high intent
terms where they're making that short
list and comparing the options. Um those
are usually the ones to start when it
comes to kind of capturing demand on
Google and SEO.
That's so interesting. Yeah. Yeah. Okay.
and like to what I I don't know if this
is this is like a good time to kind of
speak a little bit more about your money
keyword framework. I I know I'll point
people to the actual resource um linked
in the description of this podcast, but
uh I don't know if this is a good time
to like if you know kind of riff on that
a little bit and then um speak for how
that works. Yeah. Yeah, we we can go
through that quickly. So I suppose the
one of the simplest ways in my opinion
at least to to map out
How you can get the quickest return on
pipeline from an SEO strategy is to fire
up a simple Google sheet. Like I say,
it's it's mapping out money keywords,
high sales, intent keywords. So, you
fire up a Google sheet and you split it
into four columns. Column one is main
offers or solutions you actually want to
sell. column two is industries like we
talked about at the start of the
conversation that have that problem you
solve are motivated to solve it and
historically have bought well from you
and have the cash to easily invest.
Column three is main competitors that
always come up on sales calls and column
four links back to topfunnel actually
which is more what are my dream clients
jobs to be done what are their
struggling moments
um what what are they trying to do maybe
with an an incumbent bodgeged together
inhouse solution that they're maybe
getting frustrated with and searching
for other ways to to get the job done
better. That's column four. So column
one if we go back to proposal software
example might be they'll call our
solution proposal software or proposal
tools or proposal platform or that kind
of stuff. Column two what the main
industries that could be sales HR
fintech recruitment you'd know that
better than me. Column three would be
competitors. So proposal software wise
that might be proposify quiller panda do
there's a bunch of others. Um, and then
the fourth one, jobs to be done. What
are those things that get raised on
sales calls? Like when a prospect tries
to get the job done themsel, like how to
build a sales quote in Google Sheets or
how to build a killer proposal in Google
Docs or how to craft sales proposals
that convert or how to increase my sales
close rates. Like those those issues
that get raised that your problem
specifically solves. more topfunnel, but
those articles can be really useful for
introducing your solution,
talking about the pain points they might
be facing and how you solve it. Um, but
this this sheet with these four columns
is all about building longtail keywords
that your dream clients might search
when they need your offer. Um, so for
proposal tools or proposal software, you
might make keywords like best proposal
software or best proposal tools. The
issue is those are going to be really
competitive and difficult to rank for
because there'll be a lot of competitors
going for those and ranking well. So to
start with those might be ones that you
chip away at long term and to get a
quicker win you might go for industry
like offer plus industry like proposal
software for sales teams or best
proposal software for recruitment teams
or HR or fintech or those niches because
they'll be a bit easier to rank because
they're more specific but they'll still
drive high sales intent leads. Um, and
then using the competitive column, that
would be what we talked about earlier.
Like we know that folks usually evaluate
three or four vendors. So they might
search for like proposify versus Panda
or Proposify pricing or Proposify
alternatives. And that's where you can
have an article that says these are the
top 10 alternatives to this solution.
Maybe position yourself as number one,
but share your points of differentation,
why folks choose you, what you do the
others don't. Comparison tables, show
your product in action proof and all
that good stuff. So this exercise is all
about really exhausting that bottom of
funnel and up to work out what are those
dream clients searching for when they
need the offer. You can run the longtail
keywords for a tool like HFS or Semrush,
but don't be too worried about search
volume as usually the higher sales
intent keywords have less traffic behind
them but are more likely to result in in
those leads or those demos. So that's
kind of the first exercise you want to
do and then after that you can start
working out what type of pages you need
to build.
That's really interesting. You know what
what I kind of picked up on a couple of
things is that again it begins with the
sales calls and in those sales calls you
figure out what that what your specific
customer's journey is. You know um where
do they start? What's the trigger? Uh
what questions are they asking when it
comes to jobs to be done? Um you know
and and and then your SEO maps onto this
c specific customer journey and the
specific questions they're answering.
you're able to hit them when it matters.
Uh saying the things that matter and and
that actually moves them to the next
point as well. Um which is down down to
revenue. Um and then of course yeah from
that you can also figure out the very
specific high intent revenue terms that
relate specifically to your product,
your business. Um and and so and so so
that's that's that's just really
interesting. Um yeah, so happy to share
that framework and link your website to
and everything on the bottom of this uh
podcast. Now I'm just curious as well um
when you're when when you're trying to
figure out those pain points, those jobs
to be done, how do you pick up on what
truly is something that is is is kind of
um something they want to solve now
versus something that they're just
talking about as as as yeah, you know,
this this could be better um but not
going to Yeah. Yeah. So yeah, Josh
Sudan's a great framework. So I think it
was Bob Moer and another guy that coined
it. Now you should probably like it
depends how you consume information
best, right? Like I'm big on YouTube and
also audio podcasts like listening.
Listening is how I consume. So I listen
like when I'm driving and all that kind
of stuff. Um
so yeah, try and get to grips with some
of those frameworks. But there's a
really good book called Gap Selling by a
chap called Keenan talks about the gap
between where a prospect is now and
where they want to get to. So their
current state and their desired state
and that gap if there's no gap there's
no sale. There's no gap between where
they want to get to and where they where
they are and where they want to get to.
There's no sale. So it's talk it's it's
a lot around my background is sales. So
I'm interesting. I'm quite a curious
mind in the sense that I like to run
sales. I like to run discovery calls and
then the marketer inside me would like
to know the why, the hows and the all
that kind of stuff to extract the
information. So if you can get good at
it doesn't have to necessarily be sales
calls. It could be you run a podcast
where you interview
or you run a minieries or whatever
or you just listen to those sales calls
that you pull from your team. Um you
have to have a way to extract that
information and then you can run it
through a tool like chat GBT whatever to
get the the patterns. Um, but yeah,
finding the jobs to be done. I mean, I
guess there's no real easy way unless
you have a bank of sales calls already.
Um, but if you're a smaller team, you
might have to literally extract them
yourself. And most of it is diving into
questions like what's made you want to
evaluate at this now. Um,
how how are you currently doing this?
Like I don't know if it was sales
proposals that they've approached you
for like a tool. like how are you how
are you currently getting quotes offers
for for your sales off for your offers
or how your sales walk me through how
your sales team currently sends out
quotes or proposals and they might say
well actually they're spending an hour
every time like building it in Google
docs or Google sheets and it's like and
you might say like is that a good use of
their time do you think and they'll say
actually no they could they could be
doing more cold calling or cold email or
LinkedIn outreach if they if they had
that time back and you say all right
okay so do you think kind whether it
should be automated or what do you think
and then get the prospect to give you
the answer. Put don't put words into
your prospect m get them to literally
say what the issue is. Ask probing
questions and they'll start spilling out
the information. So it's almost like
customer research but a sales call.
Yeah. The to bring out their problems
and if if the problem's not impactful
enough, there won't be a sale. Um
because if they think Yeah. Oh yeah,
it's in Google Docs. it's wasting like a
few minutes a day, but we've actually
got this really good template that
converts really well and drives a lot of
sales. They're not that bothered
that they don't care. Whereas, if it
does, if they are starting to get
frustrated and they're saying like,
"Yeah, we're building pros in Google
Docs. It's taking an hour of our sales
teams every time. The sales team are
starting to get pissed off." And you'll
be like, "Why is that an issue?" And oh,
they're actually taking time off or
they're not hitting quota or they're
skipping cold calling, whatever. When
and and then you say, "What impact is
that having on your business?" Well,
actually, we missed Q1 targets because
of it. Then you know you've got a money
problem. Um, so it's all that stuff
really and all this has just come from
me reading loads of sales books and
doing loads of interviews and stuff that
you pick up and you have to go through
trial and error. Um, but yeah, gap
selling is very good for that kind of
stuff. Damn, man. I I I what what I'm
what I'm picking up here is that um you
understand
sales
um customer research to the extent that
that that you Victor the important parts
um
and SEO. I think that's what's made this
conversation
so and and marketing and and and and
yes, it's made this conversation really
interesting for me because I've been
able to like kind of bounce around these
different places that I found like you
know are interconnected and and and and
you really opened my mind up to a few
things and also framed up a few things
I'm going to be using myself um
especially your your kind of money
keyword slashc customers journey any
combined like that for me is a great
framework. So, I'm going to be using it,
delving into it and um and so yeah, I
just want to say like thanks so much,
man, for your time and and and answering
all these all these questions. Um yeah.
Yeah. No worries. Good questions. Hey,
I'll let you know how the conversation
with George goes, too.
Yeah, sounds good. George is a good guy.
It should be a good episode. Nice one.
Nice one. All right. Well, thanks, Sam.
And um yeah, 100%. Thank you so much.
Cheers for having me. And if you haven't
yet, why not join thousands of B2B
legends enjoying my weekday newsletter
for unusual B2B marketing strategies,
SEO tips, weird experiments I'm running,
and fresh podcast updates. Head over to
breaking.com
and hit that newsletter tab. And with
that, I shall catch you on the next one.
Cheers.
[Music]